Add Trino 422 release notes (#18249)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-422.md

# Release 422 (12 Jul 2023)

## General

* Add support for adding nested fields with an `ADD COLUMN` statement. ({issue}`16248`)

> * Improve performance of `INSERT` and `CREATE TABLE AS ... SELECT` queries. ({issue}`18005`)

Reviewer: Did we always use this kind of syntax for CTAS?

Reviewer 2: Yes

* Fix queries hanging when the `task.retry-policy` configuration property is set

>   to `TASK` and other worker node failures occur. ({issue}`18175 `)

Reviewer 2: What does "other worker node failures" mean? Which "other"? Maybe just say "when worker nodes fail"

## Security

> * Add OAuth 2.0 support for validating JWT types. ({issue}`17640`)

Reviewer: Sorry.. not sure what this means .. maybe

Add support for validating JWT types with OAuth 2.0 authentication

* Fix error when the `http-server.authentication.type` configuration property

>   is set to `oauth2` or `jwt` and the `principal-field` property has a different

Reviewer: ?? different from what?

  value. ({issue}`18210`)

## BigQuery connector

> * Add support for writing to columns with a `timestamp with time zone` type. ({issue}`17793`)

Reviewer: Uppercase for types

TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE

Reviewer 2: No, we use lower case for type names in release notes. Also, the type is `timestamp(p) with time zone`

Reviewer: ok .. but only in release notes from all I understand

## Delta Lake connector

* Add support for renaming columns. ({issue}`15821`)
* Improve performance of reading from tables with a large number of
  [checkpoints](https://docs.delta.io/latest/delta-batch.html#-data-retention). ({issue}`17405`)

> * Disallow using the `vacuum` procedure when the max writer version is above 5. ({issue}`18095`)

Reviewer: what writer? what does this mean for a user?  Using a newer version of Databricks or something?

## Hive connector

> * Add support for reading `timestamp with local time zone` types. ({issue}`1240`)

Reviewer: uppercase

Reviewer 2: It should clarify that that's a Hive type.

> * Add a native Avro file format writer. This can be disabled with the

Reviewer: do we want to say something about performance improvements or anything ?

Author: We haven't for previous release notes like this

  `avro.native-writer.enabled` configuration property or the
  `avro_native_writer_enabled` session property. ({issue}`18064`)

> * Fix query failure when the `hive.recursive-directors` configuration property

Reviewer: Property name looks wrong .. isnt it directories?

  is set to true and partition names contain non-alphanumeric characters. ({issue}`18167`)

## Iceberg connector

* Add support for adding nested fields with an `ADD COLUMN` statement. ({issue}`16248`)

> * Change the default file format to Parquet. The `iceberg.file-format`

Reviewer: Wow .. do we need to call out any gotchas of that? People will suddenly have lakehouses with two different file formats.. is that ok @martint and @findepi ? 

Are there any negative side effects potentially? Performance?

Reviewer 3: cc @raunaqmorarka

Reviewer 4: File format is also a table property, so this change won't change anything for existing tables. It will apply only to new tables and only for ppl who haven't already explicitly specified a different config.
I don't see a problem with some tables using orc and others parquet. The users who rely on some file format specific thing (e.g. orc bloom filters) would already be specifying file format in table property or catalog configs.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Lets hope we dont cause any headaches.

  catalog configuration property can be used to specify a different default file
  format. ({issue}`18170`)

> * Improve performance of reading `ROW` types from Parquet files. ({issue}`17387`)

Reviewer 2: `row`

> * Fix failure when writing to tables sorted on `uuid` or `time` types. ({issue}`18136`)

Reviewer: UUID and TIME

## Redshift connector

> * Fix incorrect results by throwing an error when encountering unsupported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prevent returning incorrect results by throwing an error when encountering unsupported
```
